Case meets a limping Molly in Baltimore and gives her a napkin with the word "WINTERMUTE" on it, a message from the Panther Moderns. Taking this information to the Finn, they learn that Wintermute is the name of a powerful Artificial Intelligence (AI) with Swiss citizenship, built for the Tessier-Ashpool S.A. corporation. Molly reveals she paid the Moderns to find out who was backing their employer, Armitage, and the answer is this AI.

The Finn then tells a long story about another fence named Smith. Smith came into possession of an ornate, talking computer terminal that was traced back to Tessier-Ashpool. A vat-grown ninja assassin, presumably sent by the corporation, politely but lethally recovered the terminal, paid for it, and had the original thief killed. A subsequent investigation by the Finn revealed that Tessier-Ashpool is an incredibly wealthy, secretive, and eccentric first-generation orbital family who own the Freeside space station. They practice extensive cloning and use cryogenics to maintain control over their corporate dynasty from their private residence, the Villa Straylight.

With this new context, Molly gives Case his next job: to hack into one of Armitage's databases in London.

Returning to the loft, Case activates the ROM construct of the legendary dead cowboy, McCoy Pauley, also known as "the Flatline." After a disorienting conversation in which Case must explain to the digital ghost that it is a construct with no continuous memory, the two prepare to hack the London database together.