After Luce left, Holden stayed at the Wicker Bar until around one o'clock, getting very drunk while listening to a new singer named Valencia. He tried to get Valencia to join him but his message was probably never delivered. As he got drunker, he fantasized again about having a bullet in his guts. He left the bar wanting to call Jane but instead drunkenly called Sally Hayes, waking up her grandmother. When Sally got on the phone, he slurred that he would come trim her Christmas tree, barely coherent and still pretending to be shot by "Rocky's mob." She told him to go to bed and hung up. Holden stayed in the phone booth to avoid passing out, then went to the men's room and dunked his head in cold water. He sat on a radiator, soaking wet and shivering. Valencia's piano player came in and suggested Holden go home, asking how old he was. When Holden went to leave, he was crying though he didn't know why, feeling depressed and lonesome. The hat-check girl was very nice, refusing his tip and insisting he go home to bed. She made him put on his red hunting hat since his hair was wet. Outside, Holden started walking to Central Park to see what the ducks were doing. On the way, he dropped Phoebe's record and it broke into fifty pieces, which devastated him. In the dark park, he searched for the lagoon and the ducks but found none. Sitting on a bench, shivering with ice in his hair, he worried about getting pneumonia and dying. He pictured his funeral and felt sorry for his parents, especially his mother who hadn't gotten over Allie's death. Thinking about Phoebe's reaction if he died, he decided to sneak home to see her. He walked all the way home through the cold, empty streets.
