It was too late to call a cab, so Holden walked through the cold, snowy night to the train station, his luggage banging against his legs. He washed the blood off his face with snow while waiting about ten minutes for the train. On the nearly empty train, Holden normally would have enjoyed reading magazines and eating a ham sandwich, but this time he felt too depressed to do anything. At Trenton, an attractive woman in her forties sat next to him despite many empty seats. She noticed the Pencey Prep sticker on his suitcase and revealed that her son, Ernest Morrow, attended Pencey. Holden knew Morrow as "the biggest bastard that ever went to Pencey," someone who enjoyed snapping wet towels at people. However, Holden introduced himself as "Rudolf Schmidt" (the name of his dorm's janitor) and proceeded to tell elaborate lies about Ernest. He claimed Ernest was one of the most popular boys at school, describing him as shy and modest, and invented a story about Ernest refusing to run for class president because of his humble nature. Mrs. Morrow was charmed by these fabrications. When she asked why he was leaving school early, Holden invented another lie about having a brain tumor that required surgery. She wished him luck with his operation and invited him to visit Ernest at their beach house in Gloucester, Massachusetts, during the summer. Holden declined, saying he was going to South America with his grandmother, though he wouldn't visit "that sonuvabitch Morrow for all the dough in the world."
